But I didn't miss anything.
I knew that it was an hour.
I have this success.
There we go.
Okay.
The, the, oh, I'm terrible.
Did you have some coffee, some tea, some iced tea, nothing?
You've got everything.
I'm sure you do.
Okay.
I'm fine.
One of the interesting byproducts of this was that, of that, the way that artist grew, was that he was greatly respected in the British publishing community, not just the
And a wonderful opportunity came as a result of that.
Penguin had its own very fine art list, which had begun in the early 40s, I guess.
think of his name in a minute, but the man who was a very fine immigrant German scholar, was the advisor to the house, and he started commissioning books, and he eventually became the Pelican History of Art, a multi-volume set.
Oh, beautiful.
Yeah.
And in the old days, they were these thick,
know, hugely authoritative volumes with all the illustrations in the back and a beautifully produced slip case and everything and so on.
Well, sometime at the end of the 80s, I think it was, it was, it had become apparent to the people at Penguin, which by this time was part of a vast international conglomerate, because it had been bought up by Pearson and so on, and that they had this thing that they didn't know what to do with it, and it was losing money.
They decided that, well, first of all, it had been very important to the man who started Penguin, and they said, well, we could just put it out of print, or we could sell some of the books off to the highest bidder, but they decided not to do that, and they put it up for adoption, as it were, which really meant they turned to John Nickel and said, would you take this and
go on publishing it.
And so, um, a lot of negotiations and so on, but in the end, that's exactly what happened.
And, uh, he took it over, and, um, the result is, uh, a brand new Pelican history of art published by Yale.
The name was kept, and, um, alas, most of my books are still in storage, but I have some of these here.
And in place of the, um,
In place of the books with all the plates in the back and so on, he produced a whole new series with the illustrations in place and architecture and so on.
Is this a Yale book?
Yeah.
So there's a shelf this long now of these books.
And then...
About five years ago, the other great Pelican series, which was sort of our architecture of England, of every borough and so on, this enormous series of 200 volumes.
So are they called Pelicans?
Yeah, they're called the Yale University Press Pelican History.
There you go.
It's just, again, a targeted opportunity.
That might even be the title of a chapter.
Yeah, yeah.
So those are sort of three, the three legs to the stool that was building the past those years was the art publishing program, the educational list, and
And I guess you could probably call it the trade list, because that's what it was.
Because we were the, probably, I think it's fair to say, we were the pioneers in, among universal prices, in having a regular and significant list that we could sell to the trade every year.
And we did it successfully.
So you predate Oxford in this, you think?
Oh, no, I'm talking about American prices.
Because Oxford is.
Absolutely.
Oxford is.
You might as well call them trade hosts.
A lot of people do, and so on.
I mean, you get that Oxford catalog, and of course there are those, the academic titles.
Yeah.
Do they even do a separate academic catalog?
Yes, they do.
They do, yeah.
And these books carry things.
I mean, it is.
It's the greatest publisher there ever was.
I mean, it's amazing.
Yeah, but... Among American houses, because you have to make that clear.
Yeah, you absolutely have to make that clear.
And, you know, they're...
Differences are vast between the Oxfords and the others.
I mean, Cambridge is tiny in comparison, but Oxford has this enormous list.
Basically, it makes all its profits on its textbooks in Nigeria and places like that, and the rest is gravy, really.
Even the reference list.
Really?
Even the Bibles.
Okay.
This is Oxford or Cambridge?
Oxford.
So they make their money?
And the places you wouldn't expect them to be.
Well, they make their money where the empire was.
And still.
Yeah.
Wow.
Cambridge can't get a piece of that?
They don't.
They never seem to be able to.
Cambridge almost seems provincial.
It does.
And very conservative and whatnot.
And it's a successful operation, but it's nothing with the flair, the excitement, the dynamic.
The attitude.
Yeah.
It is a...
They are fascinating places to study.
I actually paid a lot of attention to them because they both had American operations, and since we were the only American press with a British operation, I watched, saw how they ran them, and tried to learn from their mistakes and their successes and so on, and it was instructive.
You're the only one with a London operation?
To speak of.
Yeah, no kidding.
Because you see so many of these, they'll say, Berkeley in London.
Yeah, yeah.
They basically have a trade office there, a sales office, and that's all.
And I never give them that credit in my bibliographies, by the way.
No, no.
Because I say, first of all, it's a waste of ink, and it's Berkeley.
Who are we kidding?
Yeah, who are we kidding?
Exactly.
But at Yale, about a third... They do generate that.
Actually...
originate in London.
So they have the authority to acquire and do all of the editorial work?
They do the editorial work.
The acquiring the seal of approval still comes from here.
I suppose it's conceivable that at some point there would be a situation like Oxford has, where there is a separate
operation here, that they don't have to get the approval from over there.
But it pretty much works.
What I tried to do was just to give the London office, the people there, the sense that this was their own show, and that they could be proud of it, and... Well, did they have their own violin?
Yes.
Yes, they did.
There was also a time when it gets rolled in with ours, but yes, they had their own bottom line and they had their own sort of managing board.
So they were accountable to New Haven, in other words.
Ultimately.
And the way we... Yale University Press London is set up as a charitable trust in the United Kingdom, which is...
the exact equivalent of the standing that Oxford and Cambridge have in this company where they are tax exempt publishers.
It's such a good pro quo.
It is.
Well, I went out and I got that for Yale, because we were beginning to make enough money that it looked like it would be a problem.
And so London has its own board.
and it has outside directors and so on.
But the way I set it up, I'm the chairman of the, I was the chairman of the London board, so there is a good deal of control.
But, um, the, um, you know, they, they, they act with a considerable amount of independence.
This is much more important than I realize.
Absolutely, absolutely.
And, and, uh, um, somewhere down the line, if you, if you, you know,
took it arbitrarily.
What were the 100 most important books in the last 50 years or something, you'd see a significant number of them would be coming from there.
Really?
Yeah.
In addition to art books?
Well, no, I would count the art books as... But in addition to?
Or you would say those primarily would be?
They would be primarily art books, but there were some very fine other books.
And then, of course, we haven't even touched on the Chinese books and the Annals of Communism, which is really a brazen, kind of a ballsy thing.
Yeah, yeah.
And there's a risk involved there.
You think you know what you're getting.
You must spend time with Jonathan Brent.
Jonathan?
B-R-E-N-T.
Okay.
And he's the...
He's editorial director in New Haven, so he's the top editorial person.
I met him this morning.
Yeah.
Right.
And let's get together a little bit very shortly.
Oh, okay, yeah.
But go ahead.
Yeah.
Well, he comes from a very well-known family in the book business.
His father is Stuart Brandt, who had a famous bookshop in Chicago for many, many, many years.
And Jonathan is a trained scholar, Ph.D.
from Columbia, and his dissertation on Henry James.
And he got interested early on in Russian literature and some Slavic and Soviet studies generally.
And he had been teaching at Northwestern, but came to, and then took a job, a sort of part-time job, at the little press they have there.
And then he became the head of it and was looking to do more.
And we were looking at that time for someone.
And he came to Yale.
He's made a huge difference, and he's an imaginative and extremely aggressive editor, and one of the very first things that happened was an opportunity that led to the Annals of Communism.
He came, and he'd been in touch with various things, and someone
some scholar, friend of his, said that one of the Eastern European archives was going to open soon, and did he know about that, and wouldn't that be kind of interesting?
And he went, and then he heard that something much bigger was going to happen in Moscow.
And I remember he'd been at the press about three weeks, and he came and he said, this is what could happen in Moscow.
I might be able to get a crack at the
at the archives of the Soviet Union.
And so I said, okay, go to Moscow and see what you can do.
And he speaks sort of serviceable Russian and can get around, and he knew a lot of people.
And there were a lot of publishers in on it at first, spending a lot of money.
But in the end, he got this thing.
And again, targets of opportunity.
He tells a wonderful story, and you should hear it direct.
of being taken on a tour of the Comintern archives.
Remember the ones that were exporting revolution?
Well, a guy was showing him, well, this is where the stuff on Germany is, and this is where the stuff on the Italian Communist Party is, and finally John said, well, where's the American Communist Party stuff?
And they found it in a dusty corner somewhere.
They didn't think it was very important.
He said, well, I'll be kind of curious to know what's in there.
And so they started opening up these, blowing the dust off.
They said some of the stuff hadn't been touched since World War II.
If you remember, Stalin closed down the Comintern in a sort of gesture to his allies, and it wasn't very important anyway.
Well, there'd be some names in there, wouldn't there?
Yeah, and there were.
And that's where he began to find some of this stuff.
Good.
Wow.
He did a very good job, and in the end, a couple of publishers spent huge sums of money, but were unable to work with the Russians, and they trusted him.
It is interesting that a trade publisher could do that.
A couple of them tried.
Because they certainly would have had more money than you guys.
At one point, we got access to one of the big archives, and I remember, Jonathan, we raised some money, because we went to some people, but...
He gave them a Xerox machine and something else, and not quite a bunch of light bulbs, but it was close to that.
Somebody else was in there waving a million-dollar check, but they didn't want it.
They were afraid of it.
They didn't want to be bought and so on.
Yeah, but they certainly wanted the Western currency.
Yeah, but they didn't take it.
That's amazing.
So ask him, and he'll tell you that he's a great storyteller, and he'll be waving his hands in the air and doing Russian accents.
So then, obviously we're going to have to have a second session on this, because I will probably scratch the surface.
But when you stepped down, publishing were over 300 titles a year?
Yeah.
And how many a year were you publishing when you came in, do you think?
Oh, um, 50?
Yeah, so you... Oh, yeah.
So this was part of...
I don't mean to use the word vision, it's too much of a cliché, but you certainly had a vision.
Well, I did, and I also thought when I looked at it's a heck of a lot more than just numbers, a lot of titles, but that's one of the most trade publishing houses.
Well, it grew faster than I expected or intended, but there were so many good things to publish, and we were also
We were growing by publishing more books every year and taking the money and putting it back in the... Well, publishing more successful books.
More successful books, exactly.
Yeah.
But not stopping publishing the others.
That's right.
And that's what I was always proud of.
And the other thing, of course, that made it possible to do that was the significant success of one of, in particular, one of the big educational projects, and that was the French textbook.
That's another one I don't know about.
Yeah, another one you need to know about.
And I had talked about doing more textbooks.
When I was at Harper, I was in the college department, so I knew about that.
And I looked around to see where there were areas where we could do something that wouldn't require the kind of apparatus that a typical big college publisher has that
huge sales force that goes out and a big toilet force at home that develops things and so on.
So lots of upfront money and so on.
And I knew we couldn't do that, but we were going to try to pick off some other areas.
And I had a model in that instance, and it was the one trade house in New York that interacted with and worked very, very successfully with its own
higher education publishing department, and that's W. W. Norton, the last independent.
And at Norton, the same people often publish both kinds of books.
That's interesting.
Yeah.
Obviously not in biology, let's say, but an editor working in music or history and psychology could be
publishing for the trade and publishing books.
I've just not heard of that before.
And they do it.
And Norton's a great place.
Very, very successful.
And there has been a kind of Yale-Norton connection over the long years.
Back before, maybe in Chester's earliest days, one of the outside directors of the press, when it was a private company, was a man named Storer Lunt, who had been the
the first head of Norton after the Norton, after Warder Norton died.
His successor, George Brockway, was on my board for a long time, and then George's successor, Don Lamb, was the, followed him, and he and I worked very closely together.
So, I mean, all together, it was about a 35 or 40-year connection.
And I looked at what Norton did and how it worked together and said, well, we could take a page out of that and do it.
And
I'd asked George at one point about the mixing trade publishing with college publishing and whatnot, and he said, did you ever meet him?
He's a salty, wonderful character, terrific publisher.
And he said, well, at Norton, the college department and Dr. Freud account for 51 percent of the profit.
Okay, so the trade department was not, but they had, of course, the standard Freud
edition, you know, and the good college department, especially their famous Norton book of this and, you know, those English anthologies.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, all is wonderful.
The book of the dead.
I mean, there were different kinds of Norton books.
Yeah.
So they were, again, they were a model.
The Norton anthology of Afro-American literature became a standard.
Yeah.
Right when it came out.
Right, right.
And their Norton anthology of everything.
book and so on.
It was just fabulous.
And so we picked up on that and did it.
And at any rate, we got a hold of a textbook prospect that had been being developed at Yale and was actually under contract to another publisher, to Norton.
But they thought it was too risky, kind of experimental, and it was going to be done
with a huge audio-visual component and so on, and they backed out, and we signed it up.
Well, at the same time we signed it up, they got backing from the Annenberg Corporation, and Annenberg paid for the creation of a, it was a 50-week, 50-hour-long television programs teaching introductory French.
And we got the contract for the print materials.
And for the next 15 years, those textbooks, it was a very complicated package, brought in on average a million dollars a year.
And again, so that was our bread and butter.
So this is a text that you used to teach French at the college level?
Yeah, French one.
And usually taught as a
So at Yale, you can take two kinds of French courses, but if you take the one that meets every day, and you really can speak French at the end of it, this is the one.
My daughter teaches French, that's why I'm asking.
Well, she might know it.
The man's name was Pierre Capretz, and he's retired now.
Pierre Capretz.
C-A-P-R-E-T-Z.
And it was kind of a maverick thing, but it did wonderfully for us.
It was the mix of the three, trying to keep the balance.
See, university presses don't do textbooks as a rule.
And this was the exception.
They had an opportunity.
But you see, we were doing, to some extent, the three things that university presses didn't do.
Trade books, textbooks, and art books.
And that's how we made a success of it.
So if you can think, and you don't have to come up with it now, but if you can think of a couple of books that you're just as proud of,
having published, even though they didn't make you a million dollars a year, even if they only sold 2,000 copies, 3,000 copies, but that you were delighted that you published because you felt they had to be published, and where it demonstrates that it's not just... Oh, yeah.
If you could think of a couple of those.
Sure, I will.
Those are the kinds of things I like to bring in, too.
There have to be a couple of them.
You just say, you know, this book probably isn't going to sell 500 copies.
If it sells 1,000, we'll be thrilled, but we're going to be very happy that we published it.
It deserves to be done.
And that must happen all the time, I would say.
And that's the luxury that you are able to afford yourself by being so successful elsewhere, it would seem to me.
Right.
Well, every year we publish one book like that, and that's the winning volume and the Younger Poets.
Younger Poets.
I have James Agee's.
Yeah.
I have all of Agee, and that's one of the great, great examples.
It's a wonderful thing, and we do it because it's a great thing to do.
It's probably the most valuable Agee book I own.
Oh, I would think so.
I would think so.
Yeah.
Quite a number, quite an impressive list of other people.
You can find their first book there.
Muriel Rukeyser and John Hollander.
I've seen Hollander on Thursday.
What should my angle be with Hollander?
I think you would certainly want to talk about the series.
He's always been close to it and likes it.
I guess the other thing is that
And he's been working with the press, publishing some different kinds of books about literature that aren't part of the trendy, lit crit stuff that you see so much of today.
Did you see that review in the Sunday Times a month or two ago?
Yeah.
The Johns Hopkins book of—it absolutely slammed, but I forget.
And it probably was unfair, but it's, there's just too much of that.
And Hollander and a few other scholars are part of a kind of anti-establishment group within the literature community.
And he and... Yeah, yeah.
But it would be interesting.
Just get his angle on it.
I wouldn't want to put any words in.
But with John, once you get...
Because he's not a major player in the press, per se, but he's interesting.
No, he's always been there on the side and cared about it and so on, and particularly the poetry series.
And where I interacted with him mostly was as an advisor about poetry and help in picking the judges.
You know, that's the way it works.
of judges appointed for a period of time.
And they've been wonderful judges over the years.
Alden was a judge.
Geez.
Yeah.
I mean, really, really good people.
And Louise Glick is the current judge.
And James Merrill was the judge.
I mean, they've really been good.
And what we do is...
They pick anybody.
And the press just supplies sort of administrative support.
And every year the call goes out, submit volumes, and anyone under the age of 40 who hasn't had a volume of poetry published, you can have your work published, individual poems, can enter.
And we get, on the average, about 600 to 700 volumes a year submitted.
And we have a team of screeners that goes to work on it, and they divide the books into— Look at all the work that's done.
I mean, this is absolutely no monetary gain here at all.
None whatsoever.
And if it sells 500 copies, maybe.
Oh, it would be great.
Yeah, never— But you never know.
Once in a while.
But that's a happy— But at a certain time of year,
sort of early, late winter, early spring, it happens, you know, and they're gathering all this stuff together, and you see the, comes in, and then it gets put into three categories.
Inferno, Purgatorio, Paradiso, that's where they, those are the categories.
It's probably not as hard as some people might think, out of 600.
No, and
Most of the conscientious... Probably the last 20 or 30 that are... Yeah.
Most of the conscientious... They're actually sampled from all of them, just to be good.
But then they get down to it.
And then, at the end, the judge makes his or her selection, and it goes to the winner, whose book is then published the following year.
And it's wonderful.
Books are always beautifully turned out and so on.
And for years, the nicest thing I got to do every year was to
call up the winner and tell him, you've won.
It'll be interesting to find out how that got started.
Yeah, yeah.
John Kulka, K-U-L-K-A, is the editor who handles most of the literature stuff at the press now, and he's an interesting guy.
He used to have his own short story series with Harcourt Brace that published sort of best new short stories kind of thing, and also was an executive with
Barnes & Noble at one time, but he would be the guy to talk with about that.
And then briefly, and then I'll be on my way because we've had a terrific session.
I'd like to do this again.
I'm also seeing Gaddis.
Oh, good.
And then what would you suggest as an angle with him?
Well, I think the relationship between the press and the university is one that he could happily talk about.
And he was also a
a member in good standing of the Press's Publications Committee.
Do you know how the governance of the press works?
Well, just real quick.
Because of its unusual history, being for many years a sort of separate part of the year, the press is technically run by a governing board, the Board of Governors, which consists of the
president and other senior officers of the university, a group of senior faculty, and several outsiders, all of whom are publishers, usually half a dozen of each.
And I am accountable, I was accountable to that board.
Now, in fact, the president of the university, like a French king, could just get rid of the assembly of the board if he wanted to, but doesn't.
And so it kind of works through it.
And it's been a very good thing.
It's something that Chester set up when the change was made, and it provided a kind of, a bit of a moat, so the press didn't find itself under the thumb of a particular dean with some issue or something like that, and could operate, also could have a little more freedom in the way it operates.
One of the things it does do from time to time is turn down books written by members of the faculty and so on, and it needs to have a kind of protection and so on.
So the governing board is important that you should be talking with some of its members, and the publications committee is actually a committee of that board.
Sorry about that.
By the way, did I put Frank Turner on the list of people that you should see?
I think I did.
But Frank Turner is a guy who's a historian at Yale.
He's a press author.
He was a longtime member of the publications committee.
And he was, for a five-year period, the provost of the university, the number two
officer at Yale, so he has a really good sense of sort of everything that happens, and he knows the press quite well, so he'd be a good person.
Have there been any essays or written about the early history of the press?
Any little profiles of any of the principles?
Janice might be able to dig out one or two things.
There's a couple of very brief things that Chester wrote.
I mean, some of them would be
A thousand words or something like that.
A thousand words away.
Well, he wrote one in about 1980, and it had to be withdrawn because there were so many errors and problems with it, and he never revised it.
So it must be in the file somewhere.
It's in the file somewhere.
Was it a memoir?
a history of the press, written in the first person.
That's fabulous.
It's not much, it's just a little thing.
It's beautifully printed and so on.
Oh, they printed it?
Actually, press printed it.
And then he, people kept, the phone started to ring, just distributed to people.
I never said that.
That didn't happen like that.
I wouldn't trust it for a minute.
Well, I wouldn't be looking for factual things anyway.
Maybe if he got it wrong, it's interesting.
It's interesting.
It's the way he wanted it to be.
And there's some, some of it would be some very nice stuff about the early years of the press, just about how starting out with the three of them working in one little room on Wall Street.
That'll be there.
Yeah.
There are several versions of something like that, all of which accompany a document called The Story of Yale University Press.
And The Story of Yale University Press was published sometime around 1920.
Again, it's a book?
It's a pamphlet.
most beautifully printed thing you've ever seen.
And we have quite a number of the original copies, and Janice can just give you one.
It's anonymous, and it tells the story because around 1920, Charles Scribner gave a great deal of money to Princeton University Press, and they actually, he gave them a credit plan.
And they hoped that somebody would do that for Yale.
So this was a kind of little story.
The Press was only... Like a prospectus.
Yeah.
The Press was only 15 years old.
But in fact, it was written by Clarence Day.
And it is a wonderful document.
And it contains oft-quoted lines about the world of books by Clarence Day.
And a copy of it used to hang over the...
in the reception area of the press.
The world of books is the most wonderful thing.
It's there.
That's the opening paragraph of it.
Oh, cool.
I'll get that.
Yeah.
And in various forms in which it was published, there is a two- or three-page history.
And is there any good stuff in the correspondence, do you think?
I think.
I think so.
The only, the editorial correspondence is mostly at the library, because that's the stuff that they kept.
And I have a young woman working with me.
Well, that should be worth poking around.
That's what I told you actually to start looking at.
Yeah, so.
I said, look at the letters.
Look at the letters.
Look at the letters that, um, to Eugene O'Neill's letters, or Carlotta O'Neill's letters would be interesting stuff.
I'm going to send her an email to him.
Yeah.
And, and, uh,
That's terrific.
That's a good one.
Yeah, so it would be worth looking at.
And those will be in the library, and the O'Neill stuff should be in the library.
I'm sorry, that's either in Sterling Library or Beinecke Library.
Probably Beinecke.
I just can't remember where they had it.
That's great.
They went through, and they've done it upright, so everything's in the acid-free things, and they got rid of the fluff and just what looked like the substance of letters between editors and authors and so on.
So that's worth looking at.
The other thing is, you or she can read the...
All of the minutes of the Publications Committee and of the Governing Board are there in about six or eight bound volumes in John Donatich's office or outside it.
So you probably could find whatever was said at the meeting where
The Lonely Crowd was agreed to publish it, or Jesus Through the Centuries, or any other book that comes up.
And how often does the publication committee meet?
The publication committee meets monthly and considers a large agenda of books, every one of which has a
whole series of documents connected to it.
So an editor will say, I'm proposing to publish a book on Ben Johnson, and the editor writes a memorandum about it.
There's at least one, sometimes several reviews by outside scholars attached to it, and then there's some discussion of publishing plans and so on.
And for each and every one of those books, the
The publication committee simply signs off on it.
They say, we approve publication.
So to key up a book with its, it's probably going to be several years before publication date.
Yeah, yeah, almost always.
But that should be relatively easy to find.
And one of the interesting things you get is what the hopes and expectations of the press were, and the author, and how different it often turns out, of course.
And from the other angle, it's a book that you don't have much hope for at all, and all of a sudden it just blows the air.
Well, you know what the most famous of those is?
No.
Well, at least in my time, it was a book acquired about five or six years ago, and we bought it.
American rights from an obscure London publisher that specializes in books on the Middle East, and it was called Oil Politics and Power in the Middle East, colon, the Taliban.
And it was published in a hardcover edition, and it sold.
quite nicely.
I think like 4,000 copies, something like that.
And the following summer, we brought out a paperback edition, and it began to sell at about the same rate, but that was good.
And then after September 11th, there was not a single other book that people could turn to to find out
who the Taliban were.
And I remember when the book was first proposed and I said something like, what's a Taliban?
I mean, I didn't, you know, the editors, well, no, it's this group, you need to know about them, so on.
And I think in the next six weeks we sold something like 300,000, 400,000 copies.
That's a great story.
Yeah.
And I mean, it's terrible that it had to be that, but it was the one reliable place that you could turn to for information.
I mean, you remember when they were impeaching poor Clinton?
Yeah, exactly.
And all of a sudden, Rehnquist wrote a book twenty years or so earlier that they just remained everywhere.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
Well, it did it.
That book, I have it somewhere upstairs, it was number one on the New York Times paperback bestseller list for about ten weeks.
I remember this.
Yeah, yeah.
And the guy who wrote it, Rashid, who's Pakistani, I think, yeah.
I mean, next thing you know, he was on Peter Jennings.
He's a great expert and so on.
But it had its moment.
So I felt that was really useful.
And it was not a book published with any expectation like that at all.
And the notes would show, all right, it's an important book.
We'll publish it.
Yeah, just because it tells a story that people don't know and so on.
But that's all.
Then, dammit, it did that.
There must be a couple of other things.
Oh, sure, a lot.
And it's just a... You can think of them, you know, female me or whatever.
Yeah.
A very similar one.
I know, just about two seconds.
In about 1977, the press published an extremely esoteric book, which was a field guide to the Khmer language.
And it was done on a typewriter.
using a Khmer typewriter and an English language typewriter.
And it was just English and Khmer.
So you could, workers in the field could do it.
And I think 500 copies were published.
When the refugees started coming, it was the only book in existence.
And I think sales peaked at about 35,000 copies.
But again, it was blind luck, of course, but it was also wonderful utility.
No, it's not.
Somebody had the perception to say there's a utility.
There is, yeah.
But we would have and should have been perfectly satisfied that we sold all those 500 copies because that's all the field workers there were and so on.
Isn't that great?
I say being lucky is a very important part of being successful, whatever you do.
Well, anyway, that's the idea.
Well, I hope I've given you something to start with here.
I'm going to go home now and listen to this and pull out some quotes.
And then, as I get through this stuff, I think, you know, I'm around
Do you mind an occasional phone call or something?
Not at all.
Or an email?
Do you check your email?
Absolutely.
I'm so pleased you're doing this.
I'm going to do a good job.
I know you are.
I admire your work.
I have every intention to make this something that people will enjoy reading.
And if I do nothing else, I'll bring my readers to it.
I know that the people who are interested in my books will...
When I retired, three different people gave me a copy of your Patients and Forces.
No kidding.
Yeah.
Do you have my Gentle Madness?
I do, and I've read it, yes.
That's the one that my... I proposed to...